JPEGTRAN(1)                                         JPEGTRAN(1)





NAME
       jpegtran - lossless transformation of JPEG files

SYNOPSIS
       jpegtran [ options ] [ filename ]


DESCRIPTION
       jpegtran performs various useful transformations of JPEG
       files.  It can translate the coded  representation  from
       one  variant  of JPEG to another, for example from base-
       line JPEG to progressive JPEG or  vice  versa.   It  can
       also  perform some rearrangements of the image data, for
       example turning an image from landscape to portrait for-
       mat by rotation.

       jpegtran  works  by rearranging the compressed data (DCT
       coefficients), without ever fully  decoding  the  image.
       Therefore, its transformations are lossless: there is no
       image degradation at all, which would not be true if you
       used djpeg followed by cjpeg to accomplish the same con-
       version.  But by the same token, jpegtran cannot perform
       lossy operations such as changing the image quality.

       jpegtran reads the named JPEG/JFIF file, or the standard
       input if no file is named, and produces a JPEG/JFIF file
       on the standard output.

OPTIONS
       All switch names may be abbreviated; for example, -opti-
       mize may be written -opt or -o.  Upper  and  lower  case
       are  equivalent.   British  spellings  are also accepted
       (e.g., -optimise), though for brevity these are not men-
       tioned below.

       To  specify  the  coded  JPEG representation used in the
       output file, jpegtran accepts a subset of  the  switches
       recognized by cjpeg:

       -optimize
              Perform  optimization of entropy encoding parame-
              ters.

       -progressive
              Create progressive JPEG file.

       -restart N
              Emit a JPEG restart marker every N MCU  rows,  or
              every N MCU blocks if "B" is attached to the num-
              ber.

       -scans file
              Use the scan script given in the  specified  text
              file.

       See  cjpeg(1) for more details about these switches.  If
       you specify none of these  switches,  you  get  a  plain
       baseline-JPEG  output  file.  The quality setting and so
       forth are determined by the input file.

       The image can be losslessly transformed by giving one of
       these switches:

       -flip horizontal
              Mirror image horizontally (left-right).

       -flip vertical
              Mirror image vertically (top-bottom).

       -rotate 90
              Rotate image 90 degrees clockwise.

       -rotate 180
              Rotate image 180 degrees.

       -rotate 270
              Rotate image 270 degrees clockwise (or 90 ccw).

       -transpose
              Transpose image (across UL-to-LR axis).

       -transverse
              Transverse transpose (across UR-to-LL axis).

       The transpose transformation has no restrictions regard-
       ing image dimensions.  The other transformations operate
       rather  oddly if the image dimensions are not a multiple
       of the iMCU size (usually 8 or 16 pixels), because  they
       can  only  transform  complete blocks of DCT coefficient
       data in the desired way.

       jpegtran's default behavior when  transforming  an  odd-
       size  image  is designed to preserve exact reversibility
       and mathematical consistency of the transformation  set.
       As  stated,  transpose  is able to flip the entire image
       area.  Horizontal mirroring leaves any partial iMCU col-
       umn at the right edge untouched, but is able to flip all
       rows of the image.  Similarly, vertical mirroring leaves
       any  partial  iMCU row at the bottom edge untouched, but
       is able to flip all columns.  The other  transforms  can
       be  built  up  as sequences of transpose and flip opera-
       tions; for consistency, their actions on edge pixels are
       defined  to  be the same as the end result of the corre-
       sponding transpose-and-flip sequence.

       For  practical  use,  you  may  prefer  to  discard  any
       untransformable   edge   pixels  rather  than  having  a
       strange-looking strip  along  the  right  and/or  bottom
       edges of a transformed image.  To do this, add the -trim
       switch:

       -trim  Drop non-transformable edge blocks.

       Obviously,  a   transformation   with   -trim   is   not
       reversible,  so  strictly  speaking  jpegtran  with this
       switch is not lossless.  Also, the expected mathematical
       equivalences between the transformations no longer hold.
       For example, -rot 270 -trim trims only the bottom  edge,
       but  -rot 90 -trim followed by -rot 180 -trim trims both
       edges.

       Another not-strictly-lossless transformation switch is:

       -grayscale
              Force grayscale output.

       This option discards the  chrominance  channels  if  the
       input  image  is  YCbCr  (ie,  a  standard  color JPEG),
       resulting in a grayscale JPEG file.  The luminance chan-
       nel  is preserved exactly, so this is a better method of
       reducing to grayscale  than  decompression,  conversion,
       and  recompression.   This  switch is particularly handy
       for fixing a  monochrome  picture  that  was  mistakenly
       encoded  as  a  color  JPEG.  (In such a case, the space
       savings from getting rid of the near-empty chroma  chan-
       nels  won't  be  large;  but  the  decoding  time  for a
       grayscale JPEG is substantially less  than  that  for  a
       color JPEG.)

       jpegtran  also  recognizes  these  switches that control
       what to do with "extra" markers, such as comment blocks:

       -copy none
              Copy  no  extra  markers  from source file.  This
              setting suppresses all comments and other  excess
              baggage present in the source file.

       -copy comments
              Copy  only  comment markers.  This setting copies
              comments from the source file, but  discards  any
              other inessential data.

       -copy all
              Copy  all  extra markers.  This setting preserves
              miscellaneous markers found in the  source  file,
              such  as  JFIF thumbnails and Photoshop settings.
              In some files these extra markers can be sizable.

       The  default  behavior is -copy comments.  (Note: in IJG
       releases v6 and v6a, jpegtran always did the  equivalent
       of -copy none.)

       Additional switches recognized by jpegtran are:

       -maxmemory N
              Set limit for amount of memory to use in process-
              ing large  images.   Value  is  in  thousands  of
              bytes, or millions of bytes if "M" is attached to
              the number.  For example, -max 4m selects 4000000
              bytes.   If more space is needed, temporary files
              will be used.

       -outfile name
              Send output image to the named file, not to stan-
              dard output.

       -verbose
              Enable  debug printout.  More -v's give more out-
              put.  Also, version  information  is  printed  at
              startup.

       -debug Same as -verbose.

EXAMPLES
       This  example  converts a baseline JPEG file to progres-
       sive form:

              jpegtran -progressive foo.jpg > fooprog.jpg

       This example rotates an image 90 degrees clockwise, dis-
       carding any unrotatable edge pixels:

              jpegtran -rot 90 -trim foo.jpg > foo90.jpg

ENVIRONMENT
       JPEGMEM
              If this environment variable is set, its value is
              the default memory limit.  The value is specified
              as  described for the -maxmemory switch.  JPEGMEM
              overrides the default value  specified  when  the
              program was compiled, and itself is overridden by
              an explicit -maxmemory.

SEE ALSO
       cjpeg(1), djpeg(1), rdjpgcom(1), wrjpgcom(1)
       Wallace, Gregory K.  "The JPEG Still Picture Compression
       Standard",  Communications  of the ACM, April 1991 (vol.
       34, no. 4), pp. 30-44.

AUTHOR
       Independent JPEG Group

BUGS
       Arithmetic coding is not supported for legal reasons.

       The transform options can't  transform  odd-size  images
       perfectly.   Use  -trim  if  you  don't like the results
       without it.

       The entire image is read into memory  and  then  written
       out  again, even in cases where this isn't really neces-
       sary.  Expect swapping on large images, especially  when
       using the more complex transform options.



                         3 August 1997              JPEGTRAN(1)
