TIFF2PS(1)                                           TIFF2PS(1)





NAME
       tiff2ps - convert a TIFF image to POSTSCRIPT

SYNOPSIS
       tiff2ps [ options ] input.tif ...

DESCRIPTION
       tiff2ps  reads  TIFF  images  and  writes  POSTSCRIPT or
       Encapsulated POSTSCRIPT (EPS) on  the  standard  output.
       By  default,  tiff2ps writes Encapsulated POSTSCRIPT for
       the first image in the specified TIFF image file.

       By default, tiff2ps will generate POSTSCRIPT that  fills
       a  printed  area specified by the TIFF tags in the input
       file.  If the file does not contain XResolution or YRes-
       olution  tags, then the printed area is set according to
       the image dimensions.  The -w and -h options (see below)
       can be used to set the dimensions of the printed area in
       inches; overriding any relevant TIFF tags.

       The POSTSCRIPT generated  for  RGB,  palette,  and  CMYK
       images  uses  the  colorimage  operator.  The POSTSCRIPT
       generated for greyscale  and  bilevel  images  uses  the
       image  operator.   When the colorimage operator is used,
       POSTSCRIPT code to emulate this operator on older  POST-
       SCRIPT  printers is also generated.  Note that this emu-
       lation code can be very slow.

       Color images with associated alpha data  are  composited
       over a white background.

OPTIONS
       -1     Generate POSTSCRIPT Level 1 (the default).

       -2     Generate POSTSCRIPT Level 2.

       -3     Generate  POSTSCRIPT Level 3. It basically allows
              one to use the /flateDecode filter for  ZIP  com-
              pressed TIFF images.

       -a     Generate output for all IFDs (pages) in the input
              file.

       -b     Specify the bottom  margin  for  the  output  (in
              inches).  This  does not affect the height of the
              printed image.

       -c     Center the image in the output. This option  only
              shows  an effect if both the -w and the -h option
              are given.

       -d     Set the initial TIFF directory to  the  specified
              directory  number.  (NB: directories are numbered
              starting at zero.)  This  option  is  useful  for
              selecting  individual pages in a multi-page (e.g.
              facsimile) file.

       -e     Force the generation of  Encapsulated  POSTSCRIPT
              (implies -z).

       -h     Specify the vertical size of the printed area (in
              inches).

       -H     Specify the maximum height of image (in  inches).
              Images with larger sizes will be splitted in sev-
              eral pages. Option -L may be used for  specifying
              size of splitted images overlapping.

       -i     Enable/disable  pixel interpolation.  This option
              requires a single numeric value: zero to  disable
              pixel  interpolation and non-zero to enable.  The
              default is enabled.

       -L     Specify the  size  of  overlapping  for  splitted
              images  (in  inches).  Used in conjuction with -H
              option.

       -l     Specify  the  left  margin  for  the  output  (in
              inches).  This  does  not affect the width of the
              printed image.

       -m     Where possible render using the  imagemask  POST-
              SCRIPT  operator  instead  of the image operator.
              When this option is specified  tiff2ps  will  use
              imagemask  for  rendering  1 bit deep images.  If
              this option is not  specified  or  if  the  image
              depth  is  greater than 1 then the image operator
              is used.

       -o     Set the initial TIFF directory to the IFD at  the
              specified file offset.  This option is useful for
              selecting thumbnail images and the like which are
              hidden using the SubIFD tag.

       -p     Force  the generation of (non-Encapsulated) POST-
              SCRIPT.

       -r     Rotate image by 180 degrees.

       -s     Generate output for a single IFD  (page)  in  the
              input file.

       -w     Specify  the  horizontal size of the printed area
              (in inches).

       -x     Override resolution units specified in  the  TIFF
              as centimeters.

       -y     Override  resolution  units specified in the TIFF
              as inches.

       -z     When  generating  POSTSCRIPT  Level  2,  data  is
              scaled  so  that it does not image into the dead-
              zone on a page (the outer margin that the  print-
              ing  device is unable to mark).  This option sup-
              presses this behaviour.  When POSTSCRIPT Level  1
              is  generated,  data  is  imaged  to  the  entire
              printed page and this option has no affect.

EXAMPLES
       The following generates POSTSCRIPT Level 2 for all pages
       of a facsimile:
              tiff2ps -a2 fax.tif | lpr
       Note  also  that  if  you have version 2.6.1 or newer of
       Ghostscript then you can efficiently  preview  facsimile
       generated with the above command.

       To  generate  Encapsulated POSTSCRIPT for a the image at
       directory 2 of an image use:
              tiff2ps -d 1 foo.tif
       (notice that directories are numbered starting at zero.)

       If  you have a long image, it may be splitted in several
       pages:
              tiff2ps -h11 -w8.5 -H14 -L.5 foo.tif > foo.ps
       The page size is set to 8.5x11 by -w and -h options.  We
       will  accept  a small amount of vertical compression, so
       -H set to 14. Any pages between 11 and 14 inches will be
       fit  onto one page.  Pages longer than 14 inches are cut
       off at 11 and continued  on  the  next  page.  The  -L.5
       option  says  to repeat a half inch on the next page (to
       improve readability).

BUGS
       Because POSTSCRIPT does not support the notion of a col-
       ormap,  8-bit  palette  images produce 24-bit POSTSCRIPT
       images.  This conversion results in output that  is  six
       times  bigger  than the original image and which takes a
       long time to send to a printer over a serial line.  Mat-
       ters  are  even  worse  for  4-,  2-,  and 1-bit palette
       images.

BUGS
       Does not handle tiled images when generating PS Level  I
       output.

SEE ALSO
       pal2rgb(1),  tiffinfo(1),  tiffcp(1), tiffgt(1), tiffme-
       dian(1), tiff2bw(1), tiffsv(1), libtiff(3)



                        January 27, 1997             TIFF2PS(1)
